CASMCMS-8868: Add procedure for incrementally configuring images (#4467)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: troubleshooting/incrementally_configuring_images.md

> # Incrementally configuring images

Reviewer: This should be capitalized (the main page header is the only header where the style guide indicates to capitalize throughout -- the rest use sentence casing, like you have for this one)

```suggestion
# Incrementally Configuring Images
```

> When IUF or SAT `bootprep` are failing to configure an image, this procedure can be used to incrementally configure an image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the [Install and Upgrade Framework (IUF)](../glossary.md#install-and-upgrade-framework-iuf) or
[System Admin Toolkit (SAT)](../glossary.md#system-admin-toolkit-sat) `bootprep` are failing to configure an image,
this procedure can be used to incrementally configure an image.
```

This avoids re-running the build and configuration steps that have succeeded, which would occur if IUF or SAT `bootprep` were re-run.

> The following example assumes the user is creating a `Compute` image, but can be adapted for other image types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example assumes the user is creating a [compute node](../glossary.md#compute-node-cn) image, but
can be adapted for other image types.
```

> 

Reviewer: The page is long enough that it may be nice to add a table of contents.

```suggestion

- [Setting up](#setting-up)
- [Generating a partially configured image](#generating-a-partially-configured-image)
- [Restarting SAT and IUF](#restarting-sat-and-iuf)

```

## Setting up

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the path to the IUF logs printed by the `iuf` command. It will look like this:

   ```text
   2023-11-01T14:06:36.128255Z INFO All logs will be stored in /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/iuf/cos-products-20231031/log/20231101140636
   ```

   See `install.log` in this directory when subsequent steps reference the IUF logs.

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the SAT logs by looking for a line like the following in the IUF logs:

Reviewer: This step looks nearly identical to one a few steps later. I gather that you are trying to identify two different lines, but both instructions describe the target as "the SAT logs". I think you should add some verbiage to differentiate the two lines. Something like "Find the SAT logs in the `prepare-managed-images` section ... " and "Find the SAT logs in the `update-managed-cfs-config` section ..."

   ```text
   2023-11-01T14:58:22.874482Z INFO [prepare-managed-images] END sat-bootprep-run [Failed]
   2023-11-01T14:58:22.874567Z DBG  [prepare-managed-images] LOG FILE FOR sat-bootprep-run: argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log
   ```

>    The string starting with `argo/` is the key within the `config-data` bucket of the S3 object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The string starting with `argo/` is the key within the `config-data` bucket of the [S3](../glossary.md#simple-storage-service-s3) object
```

   which contains the log output from `sat bootprep`. Save this S3 key to an environment variable:

   ```bash

>    export LOGS_S3_KEY="argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"

Reviewer: It doesn't look like this procedure calls any scripts or commands which look for the presence of this environment variable, so we can just set it rather than export it. Exporting it is only needed when you will be starting up a child process and the environment variable needs to be set in that process.

```suggestion
   LOGS_S3_KEY="argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"
```

   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Download the workflow SAT logs.

   ```bash
   cray artifacts get config-data "$LOGS_S3_KEY" main.log
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set `BASE_IMAGE_ID`.

>    View the log and look for a line the includes `Creation of image`
> 
>    ```bash
>    INFO: Creation of image ssi-cne-1.0.0-32-csm-1.5.x86_64-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10 succeeded: ID f5374c4c-8c5a-4b79-a5e5-aef778ed36cd
>    ```
> 
>    Set `BASE_IMAGE_ID` to the value of the image id.  It is important that this value is set to the image id and not the image name.
> 
>    ```bash
>    export BASE_IMAGE_ID="f5374c4c-8c5a-4b79-a5e5-aef778ed36cd"
>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   1. View the log and look for a line the includes `Creation of image`

      ```text
      INFO: Creation of image ssi-cne-1.0.0-32-csm-1.5.x86_64-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10 succeeded: ID f5374c4c-8c5a-4b79-a5e5-aef778ed36cd
      ```

   1. Set `BASE_IMAGE_ID` to the value of the image ID.

      It is important that this value is set to the image ID and not the image name.

      ```bash
      BASE_IMAGE_ID="f5374c4c-8c5a-4b79-a5e5-aef778ed36cd"
      ```
````

   SAT may have generated multiple images, in which case it is up to the user to determine which is the desired base image.

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the SAT logs by looking for a line like the following in the IUF logs:

Reviewer: Same as the comment about the earlier step -- maybe adjust the wording of this step to differentiate it from the other one.

   ```text
   2023-11-03T17:31:50.121175Z DBG  [update-managed-cfs-config                                ] LOG FILE FOR sat-bootprep-run: argo/cos-products-20231031-sm5qz-update-cfs-config-hh522/cos-products-20231031-sm5qz-update-cfs-config-hh522-sat-wrapper-1367779725/main.log
   ```

   Note that this may have been logged in a different session within the IUF activity, so a
   different IUF log directory may need to be examined.

   The string starting with `argo/` is the key within the `config-data` bucket of the S3 object
   which contains the log output from `sat bootprep`. Save this S3 key to an environment variable:

   ```bash

>    export LOGS_S3_KEY="argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   LOGS_S3_KEY="argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"
```

   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Download the workflow SAT logs.

   ```bash
   cray artifacts get config-data "$LOGS_S3_KEY" main.log
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set `CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME`.

>    View the log and look at the end for the list of configurations that have been created.
> 
>    ```json
>    {
>        "configurations": [
>            {
>                "name": "ssi-compute-23.11.0-SSI-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10"
>            }
>        ]
>    }
>    ```
> 
>    Set `CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME` to the name of the CFS configuration.
> 
>    ```bash
>    export CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME="ssi-compute-23.11.0-SSI-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10"
>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
   1. View the log and look at the end for the list of configurations that have been created.

      ```json
      {
          "configurations": [
              {
                  "name": "ssi-compute-23.11.0-SSI-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10"
              }
          ]
      }
      ```

   1. Set `CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME` to the name of the [Configuration Framework Service (CFS)](../glossary.md#configuration-framework-service-cfs) configuration.

      ```bash
      CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME="ssi-compute-23.11.0-SSI-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10"
      ```
````

>    SAT may have generated multiple configurations, in which case it is up to the user to determine which is the desired configuration.  However if the default SAT `bootprep` file is being used, the configuration name should include `compute`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   SAT may have generated multiple configurations, in which case it is up to the user to determine which is the desired configuration.
   However if the default SAT `bootprep` file is being used, then the configuration name should include `compute`
```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set `SESSION_NAME`.

   This can be set to any value, but the following example steps assume this variable is set.

   ```bash

>    export SESSION_NAME="example-partial-image-configuration"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   SESSION_NAME="example-partial-image-configuration"
```

   ```

1. (Optional) Find the failed configuration layer.

   If configuration of the image failed somewhere beyond the first configuration layer, and there is some confidence that the successful layers will continue to be successful,

>    it is possible to save time by generating the first partial image with all of the successful layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   then it is possible to save time by generating the first partial image with all of the successful layers.
```

   Find the index of the of the failed configuration either by counting the number of successful configuration layers in the logs, or by comparing the name of the failed layer to the output of `cray cfs v3 configurations describe $CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME`.
   Indices for the configuration layers start at 0.

## Generating a partially configured image

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set the configuration limit.

   If this is the first CFS run of this procedure, this should be `0` to apply only the first layer.

   ```bash

>    export CONFIGURATION_LIMIT=0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   CONFIGURATION_LIMIT=0
```

   ```

>    Optionally, this can instead be set to a comma-separated list of numbers starting at 0 when trying to apply all layers up to the failed layer. e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Optionally, this can instead be set to a comma-separated list of numbers starting at 0 when trying to apply all layers up to the failed layer. For example:
```

      ```bash

>    export CONFIGURATION_LIMIT=0,1,2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   CONFIGURATION_LIMIT=0,1,2
```

   ```

>    If this is not the first CFS run in this procedure, set this value to the next layer to be applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If this is not the first CFS run in this procedure, then set this value to the next layer to be applied.
```

   ```bash

>    export CONFIGURATION_LIMIT=<previous CONFIGURATION limit +1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   CONFIGURATION_LIMIT=<previous CONFIGURATION limit +1>
```

   ```

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Generate a partial configured image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Generate a partially configured image.
```

>     The following command will generate an image the only adds the configuration layers specified in the `CONFIGURATION_LIMIT`.

Reviewer 2: Minor typo here

```suggestion
    The following command will generate an image that only adds the configuration layers specified in the `CONFIGURATION_LIMIT`.
```

   ```bash
   cray cfs v3 sessions create --name $SESSION_NAME --configuration-name $CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME --target-definition image --target-group Compute $BASE_IMAGE_ID --configuration-limit $CONFIGURATION_LIMIT
   ```

   If this is the last layer of the configuration, it is optionally possible to specify the name of the resulting image by adding `--target-image-map`.

   ```bash
   cray cfs v3 sessions create --name $SESSION_NAME --configuration-name $CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME --target-definition image --target-group Compute $BASE_IMAGE_ID --configuration-limit $CONFIGURATION_LIMIT --target-image-map $BASE_IMAGE_ID <desired image name>
   ```

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Monitor CFS and retrieve the partial image id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Monitor CFS and retrieve the image ID of the partially generated image.
```

>     Monitor the CFS session with the following command until the status is complete.  If `suceeded` is true, move on to the next step, otherwise debug the failure and re-run the session as necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Monitor the CFS session with the following command until the status is complete. If `suceeded` is true, then move on to the next step; otherwise, debug the failure and re-run the session as necessary.
```

   ```bash
   cray cfs sessions describe $SESSION_NAME --format json | jq .status.session
   ```

   Example output:

   ```json
   {
     "completionTime": "2023-11-01T19:55:10",
     "job": "cfs-712dee37-2b80-498c-867c-42753716cad6",
     "startTime": "2023-11-01T19:53:09",
     "status": "complete",
     "succeeded": "true"
   }
   ```

> 1. When the session is complete, get the resulting IMS image id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When the session is complete, get the resulting [Image Management Service (IMS)](../glossary.md#image-management-service-ims) image ID.
```

   ```bash
   cray cfs v3 sessions describe $SESSION_NAME --format json | jq .status.artifacts
   ```

   Example output:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "image_id": "<IMS IMAGE ID>",
       "result_id": "<RESULTANT IMS IMAGE ID>",
       "type": "ims_customized_image"
     }
   ]
   ```

> 1. Prepare for the next configuration layer.

Reviewer: This step is a little confusing to me. The way it is written, I would assume that when we are on the last layer of the configuration, then I will not be setting the `BASE_IMAGE_ID` variable to the resultant IMS image ID. But I get the impression that this should be happening either way, and the only real difference in the two cases is that if this isn't the last step, then we need to delete the CFS session and repeat the previous steps. 

If that's the case, I would probably replace this with two steps. The first one is the step that you do either way (the stuff you have in the code block, I think). And the next one then says that if it's the last layer, go to the next section, otherwise go back to the top of this section.

Does that make sense? Or am I misunderstanding the intention of this step?

   If this was not the last layer in the configuration, set `BASE_IMAGE_ID` equal to the `result_id` from the last CFS session, and cleanup the CFS session.

>    Then return to the top of this section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Then return to [the beginning of this section](#generating-a-partially-configured-image).
```

   If this was the last layer in the configuration, move on to the next section.

   ```bash

>    export BASE_IMAGE_ID=<RESULTANT IMS IMAGE ID>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   BASE_IMAGE_ID=<RESULTANT IMS IMAGE ID>
```

   cray cfs v3 sessions delete $SESSION_NAME
   ```

## Restarting SAT and IUF

1. Create a copy of the original SAT `bootprep` file.

>    Instructions for this procedure can be found in the [Stage 0](../upgrade/Stage_0_Prerequisites.md#option-2-upgrade-of-csm-on-system-with-additional-products) upgrade docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Instructions for this procedure can be found in the [Stage 0](../upgrade/Stage_0_Prerequisites.md#option-2-upgrade-of-csm-on-system-with-additional-products) upgrade documentation.
```

> 1. Edit the session templates in the SAT `bootprep` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Edit the [Boot Orchestration Service (BOS)](../glossary.md#boot-orchestration-service-bos) session templates in the SAT `bootprep` file.
```

>    For any BOS templates in the `session_templates` section that will now be booting with the image you have just created, replace `image_ref` with `ims` to specify an image from IMS by its ID:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For any BOS templates in the `session_templates` section that will now be booting with the image that was just created, replace `image_ref` with `ims` to specify an image from IMS by its ID:
```

   ```

1. Remove image generation and configuration from the SAT `bootprep` file.

   In the `images` section of the file, remove configuration of the already created image.

   Example image configuration section that can be removed:

   ```yaml
   - name: "compute-{{base.name}}"
     ref_name: compute_image.aarch64
     base:
       image_ref: base_cos_image.aarch64
     configuration: "{{default.note}}compute-{{recipe.version}}{{default.suffix}}"
     configuration_group_names:
     - Compute
   ```

   Optionally remove the creation of the base image.
   This can save a lot of time in the IUF/SAT run, but requires more changes to the `bootprep` file to ensure that no other image is building off the base image.

   Example image creation section that can be removed:

   ```yaml
   - name: "{{default.note}}{{base.name}}{{default.suffix}}"
     ref_name: base_cos_image.aarch64
     base:
       product:
         name: cos
         type: recipe
         version: "{{cos.version}}"
         filter:
           arch: aarch64
   ```

   If the base image creation is removed, ensure that no other `images` or `session_templates` reference the base image.

>    If they do share a base image, as is frequently the case with the `UAN` image and `Compute` image, the images or templates will need to be updated to reference the image id of the base image that was already created.
>    The base image id was stored in `BASE_IMAGE_ID` earlier in this procedure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If they do share a base image, as is frequently the case with the `UAN` image and `Compute` image, then the images or templates must be updated to reference the image ID of the base image that
   was already created. The base image ID was stored in `BASE_IMAGE_ID` earlier in this procedure.
```

   Image customization section before:

   ```yaml
   - name: "uan-{{base.name}}"
     ref_name: uan_image.aarch64
     base:
       image_ref: base_cos_image.aarch64
     configuration: "{{default.note}}uan-{{recipe.version}}{{default.suffix}}"
     configuration_group_names:
     - Application
     - Application_UAN
   ```

   Image customization section after:

   ```yaml
   - name: "uan-{{base.name}}"
     ref_name: uan_image.aarch64
     base:
       ims:
         id: <base image id>
         type: image
     configuration: "{{default.note}}uan-{{recipe.version}}{{default.suffix}}"
     configuration_group_names:
     - Application
     - Application_UAN
   ```

   See the previous step for updating any templates.

1. Restart IUF.

   IUF can now be restarted at the `prepare-images` step using the new `bootprep` file.

>    For more information see [Image Preparation](../operations/iuf/workflows/image_preparation.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For more information, see [Image Preparation](../operations/iuf/workflows/image_preparation.md)
```

   ```

   See `install.log` in this directory when subsequent steps reference the IUF logs.

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the `prepare-managed-images` SAT logs by looking for a line like the following in the IUF logs:

   ```text
   2023-11-01T14:58:22.874482Z INFO [prepare-managed-images] END sat-bootprep-run [Failed]
   2023-11-01T14:58:22.874567Z DBG  [prepare-managed-images] LOG FILE FOR sat-bootprep-run: argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log
   ```

   The string starting with `argo/` is the key within the `config-data` bucket of the [S3](../glossary.md#simple-storage-service-s3) object
   which contains the log output from `sat bootprep`. Save this S3 key to an environment variable:

   ```bash
   LOGS_S3_KEY="argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Download the workflow SAT logs.

   ```bash
   cray artifacts get config-data "$LOGS_S3_KEY" main.log
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set `BASE_IMAGE_ID`.

>    1. View the log and look for a line the includes `Creation of image`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   1. View the log and look for a line that includes `Creation of image`.
```

   which contains the log output from `sat bootprep`. Save this S3 key to an environment variable:

   ```bash
   LOGS_S3_KEY="argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Download the workflow SAT logs.

   ```bash
   cray artifacts get config-data "$LOGS_S3_KEY" main.log
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set `CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME`.

   1. View the log and look at the end for the list of configurations that have been created.

      ```json
      {
          "configurations": [
              {
                  "name": "ssi-compute-23.11.0-SSI-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10"
              }
          ]
      }
      ```

   1. Set `CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME` to the name of the [Configuration Framework Service (CFS)](../glossary.md#configuration-framework-service-cfs) configuration.

      ```bash
      CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME="ssi-compute-23.11.0-SSI-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10"
      ```

   SAT may have generated multiple configurations, in which case it is up to the user to determine which is the desired configuration.

>    However if the default SAT `bootprep` file is being used, then the configuration name should include `compute`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   However, if the default SAT `bootprep` file is being used, then the configuration name should include `compute`.
```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set `SESSION_NAME`.

   This can be set to any value, but the following example steps assume this variable is set.

   ```bash
   SESSION_NAME="example-partial-image-configuration"
   ```

1. (Optional) Find the failed configuration layer.

   If configuration of the image failed somewhere beyond the first configuration layer, and there is some confidence that the successful layers will continue to be successful,
   then it is possible to save time by generating the first partial image with all of the successful layers.
   Find the index of the of the failed configuration either by counting the number of successful configuration layers in the logs, or by comparing the name of the failed layer to the output of `cray cfs v3 configurations describe $CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME`.
   Indices for the configuration layers start at 0.

## Generating a partially configured image

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set the configuration limit.

   If this is the first CFS run of this procedure, this should be `0` to apply only the first layer.

   ```bash
   CONFIGURATION_LIMIT=0
   ```

>    Optionally, this can instead be set to a comma-separated list of numbers starting at 0 when trying to apply all layers up to the failed layer. For example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Optionally, this can instead be set to a comma-separated list of numbers starting at `0` when trying to apply all layers up to the failed layer. For example:
```

   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Monitor CFS and retrieve the image ID of the partially generated image.

    Monitor the CFS session with the following command until the status is complete. If `suceeded` is true, then move on to the next step; otherwise, debug the failure and re-run the session as necessary.

   ```bash
   cray cfs sessions describe $SESSION_NAME --format json | jq .status.session
   ```

   Example output:

   ```json
   {
     "completionTime": "2023-11-01T19:55:10",
     "job": "cfs-712dee37-2b80-498c-867c-42753716cad6",
     "startTime": "2023-11-01T19:53:09",
     "status": "complete",
     "succeeded": "true"
   }
   ```

1. When the session is complete, get the resulting [Image Management Service (IMS)](../glossary.md#image-management-service-ims) image ID.

   ```bash
   cray cfs v3 sessions describe $SESSION_NAME --format json | jq .status.artifacts
   ```

   Example output:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "image_id": "<IMS IMAGE ID>",
       "result_id": "<RESULTANT IMS IMAGE ID>",
       "type": "ims_customized_image"
     }
   ]
   ```

> 1. Update `BASE_IMAGE_ID`.
> 
>    Set `BASE_IMAGE_ID` equal to the `result_id` from the last CFS session.
> 
>    ```bash
>    BASE_IMAGE_ID=<RESULTANT IMS IMAGE ID>
>    ```
> 
> 1. Cleanup the CFS session.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Update `BASE_IMAGE_ID`.

   Set `BASE_IMAGE_ID` equal to the `result_id` from the last CFS session.

   ```bash
   BASE_IMAGE_ID=<RESULTANT IMS IMAGE ID>
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Cleanup the CFS session.
````

# Incrementally configuring images

When IUF or SAT `bootprep` are failing to configure an image, this procedure can be used to incrementally configure an image.
This avoids re-running the build and configuration steps that have succeeded, which would occur if IUF or SAT `bootprep` were re-run.

The following example assumes the user is creating a `Compute` image, but can be adapted for other image types.

## Setting up

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set the Argo `IMAGE_WORKFLOW_ID`.
> 
>    ```bash
>    export IMAGE_WORKFLOW_ID=<workflow id>
>    ```
> 
>    If the exact workflow id is unknown, look for recent `prepare-images` workflows.
> 
>    ```bash
>    kubectl get workflows -n argo | grep prepare-images
>    ```
> 
>    Example output:
> 
>    ```bash
>    cos-products-20231031-4x8wz-prepare-images-bwgl7      Failed      2d7h
>    cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds      Failed      2d4h
>    cos-products-20231031-v8u11-prepare-images-bgs7x      Succeeded   47h
>    ```
> 
> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the workflow SAT logs.
> 
>    ```bash
>    cray artifacts list config-data --format json | jq '.artifacts[].Key' | grep $IMAGE_WORKFLOW_ID | grep sat-wrapper
>    ```
> 
>    Example output:
> 
>    ```bash
>    "argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"
>    "argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-628804191/main.log"
>    ```
> 
> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Download the workflow SAT logs.
> 
>    ```bash
>    cray artifacts get config-data "<log name>" main.log
>    ```

Reviewer 2: I have concerns with how complicated these steps are, and I think there's an easier way by relying on the IUF logs. Here's my suggestion.

````suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the path to the IUF logs printed by the `iuf` command. It will look like this:

   ```text
   2023-11-01T14:06:36.128255Z INFO All logs will be stored in /etc/cray/upgrade/csm/iuf/cos-products-20231031/log/20231101140636
   ```

   See `install.log` in this directory when subsequent steps reference the IUF logs.

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the SAT logs by looking for a line like the following in the IUF logs:

   ```text
   2023-11-01T14:58:22.874482Z INFO [prepare-managed-images                                   ] END sat-bootprep-run [Failed]
2023-11-01T14:58:22.874567Z DBG  [prepare-managed-images                                   ] LOG FILE FOR sat-bootprep-run: argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log
   ```

   The string starting with "argo/" is the key within the `config-data` bucket of the S3 object
   which contains the log output from `sat bootprep`. Save this S3 key to an environment variable:

   ```bash
   export LOGS_S3_KEY="argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Download the workflow SAT logs.

   ```bash
   cray artifacts get config-data "$LOGS_S3_KEY" main.log
   ```
````

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set `BASE_IMAGE_ID`.

   View the log and look for a line the includes `Creation of image`

   ```bash
   INFO: Creation of image ssi-cne-1.0.0-32-csm-1.5.x86_64-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10 succeeded: ID f5374c4c-8c5a-4b79-a5e5-aef778ed36cd
   ```

   Set `BASE_IMAGE_ID` to the value of the image id.  It is important that this value is set to the image id and not the image name.

   ```bash
   export BASE_IMAGE_ID="f5374c4c-8c5a-4b79-a5e5-aef778ed36cd"
   ```

   SAT may have generated multiple images, in which case it is up to the user to determine which is the desired base image.

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set the Argo `CONFIG_WORKFLOW_ID`.
> 
>    ```bash
>    export CONFIG_WORKFLOW_ID=<workflow id>
>    ```
> 
>    If the exact workflow id is unknown, look for recent `prepare-images` workflows.
> 
>    ```bash
>    kubectl get workflows -n argo | grep update-cfs-config
>    ```
> 
>    Example output:
> 
>    ```bash
>    cos-products-20231031-54sbq-update-cfs-config-wk8g2   Succeeded   2d7h
>    cos-products-20231031-6giwt-update-cfs-config-gdv7b   Failed      2d7h
>    cos-products-20231031-e5xvg-update-cfs-config-fdv97   Succeeded   27h
>    cos-products-20231031-sm5qz-update-cfs-config-hh522   Failed      41m
>    cos-products-20231031-x0xa5-update-cfs-config-x8kwf   Failed      2d19h
>    ```
> 
> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the workflow SAT logs.
> 
>    ```bash
>    cray artifacts list config-data --format json | jq '.artifacts[].Key' | grep $CONFIG_WORKFLOW_ID | grep sat-wrapper
>    ```
> 
>    Example output:
> 
>    ```bash
>    "argo/cos-products-20231031-e5xvg-update-cfs-config-fdv97/cos-products-20231031-e5xvg-update-cfs-config-fdv97-sat-wrapper-3214890915/main.log"
>    "argo/cos-products-20231031-e5xvg-update-cfs-config-fdv97/cos-products-20231031-e5xvg-update-cfs-config-fdv97-sat-wrapper-3848811723/main.log"
>    ```
> 
> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Download the workflow SAT logs.
> 
>    ```bash
>    cray artifacts get config-data "<log name>" main.log
>    ```

Reviewer 2: Suggesting a similar simplification that uses the IUF logs here as well:

````suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Find the SAT logs by looking for a line like the following in the IUF logs:

   ```text
   2023-11-03T17:31:50.121175Z DBG  [update-managed-cfs-config                                ] LOG FILE FOR sat-bootprep-run: argo/cos-products-20231031-sm5qz-update-cfs-config-hh522/cos-products-20231031-sm5qz-update-cfs-config-hh522-sat-wrapper-1367779725/main.log
   ```

   Note that this may have been logged in a different session within the IUF activity, so a
   different IUF log directory may need to be examined.

   The string starting with "argo/" is the key within the `config-data` bucket of the S3 object
   which contains the log output from `sat bootprep`. Save this S3 key to an environment variable:

   ```bash
   export LOGS_S3_KEY="argo/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds/cos-products-20231031-gdm63-prepare-images-2rkds-sat-wrapper-2664865581/main.log"
   ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Download the workflow SAT logs.

   ```bash
   cray artifacts get config-data "$LOGS_S3_KEY" main.log
   ```
````

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Set `CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME`.

   View the log and look at the end for the list of configurations that have been created.

   ```json
   {
       "configurations": [
           {
               "name": "ssi-compute-23.11.0-SSI-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10"
           }
       ]
   }
   ```

>    Set `CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME` to the value of the id.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Set `CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME` to the name of the CFS configuration.
```

   ```bash

>    export CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME="f5374c4c-8c5a-4b79-a5e5-aef778ed36cd"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   export CFS_CONFIGURATION_NAME="ssi-compute-23.11.0-SSI-csm-1.5.0.beta37-10"
```

     "status": "complete",
     "succeeded": "true"
   }
   ```

1. When the session is complete, get the resulting IMS image id.

   ```bash
   cray cfs v3 sessions describe $SESSION_NAME --format json | jq .status.artifacts
   ```

   Example output:

   ```json
   [
     {
       "image_id": "<IMS IMAGE ID>",
       "result_id": "<RESULTANT IMS IMAGE ID>",
       "type": "ims_customized_image"
     }
   ]
   ```

1. Prepare for the next configuration layer.

   If this was not the last layer in the configuration, set `BASE_IMAGE_ID` equal to the `result_id` from the last CFS session, and cleanup the CFS session.
   Then return to the top of this section.
   If this was the last layer in the configuration, move on to the next section.

   ```bash
   export BASE_IMAGE_ID=<RESULTANT IMS IMAGE ID>
   cray cfs v3 sessions delete $SESSION_NAME
   ```

## Restarting SAT and IUF

1. Create a copy of the original SAT `bootprep` file.

   Instructions for this procedure can be found in the [Stage 0](../upgrade/Stage_0_Prerequisites.md#option-2-upgrade-of-csm-on-system-with-additional-products) upgrade docs.

1. Edit the session templates in the SAT `bootprep` file.

>    For any BOS templates in the `session_templates` section that will now be booting with the image you have just created, replace `image_ref` with `image`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For any BOS templates in the `session_templates` section that will now be booting with the image you have just created, replace `image_ref` with `ims` to specify an image from IMS by its ID:
```

   Before:

   ```yaml
   session_templates:
   - name: example-session-template
     image:
       image_ref: example-image
   ```

   After:

   ```yaml
   session_templates:
   - name: example-session-template
     image:
       ims:
         id: <image id from the final CFS run>
   ```

> 1. Remove configuration creation from the SAT `bootprep` file.

Reviewer 2: If they restart from the `prepare-images` stage, they shouldn't need to do this since that stage of the IUF runs `sat bootprep` with `--limit images --limit session_templates` and thus skips creating CFS configurations.

   In the `configurations` section of the file, remove the configuration for `Compute` nodes, or whichever type of node you have just generated an image for.

   Example configuration section that can be removed:

   ```yaml
   configurations:
   - name: "{{default.note}}compute-{{recipe.version}}{{default.suffix}}"
     layers:
     - name: example-{{cos.working_branch}}
       playbook: example.yml
       product:
         name: cos
         version: "{{cos.version}}"
         branch: "{{cos.working_branch}}"
   ```

1. Remove image generation and configuration from the SAT `bootprep` file.

   In the `images` section of the file, remove configuration of the already created image.

   Example image configuration section that can be removed:

   ```yaml
   - name: "compute-{{base.name}}"
     ref_name: compute_image.aarch64
     base:
       image_ref: base_cos_image.aarch64
     configuration: "{{default.note}}compute-{{recipe.version}}{{default.suffix}}"
     configuration_group_names:
     - Compute
   ```

>    Optionally remove the creation of the base image.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps add that this should save a lot of time.
